U.S. Department of Justice 
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY 
POLICY 

Issue Date:  12/31/2025 

The  Department  remains  steadfast  in  its  commitment  to  equal  employment  opportunity  (EEO)  and 
treating  employees  with  fairness,  dignity  and  compassion.  We  must  ensure  that  no  applicant  for 
employment  or  employee  of  our Department  is  denied  equal  opportunity  because  of  race,  color,  religion, 
national  origin,  sex  –  including  pregnancy  –  or  because  of  age,  physical  or  mental  disability,  protected 
genetic  information,  parental  status,  marital  status,  political affiliation, or any other non-merit based factor 
and  that  all  have  the  freedom  to  compete  on  a  fair  and  level  playing  field.  We  also  must  protect  our 
workforce  and  applicants  from  retaliation  for  participating  in  EEO  activity  or  opposing discriminatory 
acts. 

These  protections  should  apply  to  all  personnel  and  employment  programs,  management  practices  and 
decisions, including,  but  not  limited  to,  recruitment,  hiring,  merit  promotions,  transfers,  reassignments, 
training  and  career development,  benefits,  and  separations.  We  will  take  swift  and  appropriate  corrective 
and/or  disciplinary  action  when  anyone  is  found  to  have  engaged  in  discrimination,  retaliation,  or 
harassment,  including  sexual  harassment,  that  is  prohibited  by  our  policies  regardless  of  whether  the 
discrimination, retaliation, or harassment violates federal law. 

In  addition,  the  Department  provides  reasonable  accommodations  to  employees  and  applicants  with 
disabilities  or known  limitations  related  to  pregnancy,  childbirth,  or  related  medical  conditions,  and  for 
religious  observances  or practices,  in  accordance  with  established  law.  The  Department  also  supports  the 
use  of  alternative  dispute  resolution  (ADR)  to  resolve  EEO  complaints  and  requires  management 
participation when ADR is approved for use. 

Finally,  all  DOJ  employees  and  applicants  for  employment  are  afforded  legal  protections  against  EEO 
violations  and  have  the  right  to  raise  allegations  of  discrimination  and  harassment  without  fear  of 
reprisal.  Contractors  have  similar  protections  if  it  is  determined  that  the  agency  is  a  joint  employer. 
Employees  who  believe  they  have  been  subjected  to  discrimination,  or  to  retaliation  for  participating  in 
EEO  activity  or  for  opposing  discrimination,  should  contact  their DOJ  Component  EEO  office  within  45 
calendar  days  of  when  the  alleged  harm  occurred.  Applicants  for  employment  should  contact  the  EEO 
Office  that  services  the  employing  DOJ  Component  where  the  alleged  act  of  discrimination occurred. 

The Department will uphold principles of EEO in its service to the United States and in support of the 
DOJ workforce who work tirelessly to uphold the rule of law, keep our county safe, and to protect civil rights. 

DOJ IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

 
 
